Analytics design documentation updates (#787)
dhis2/dhis2-docs: src/implementation/data-elements-and-custom-dimensions.md

be analysed and presented.

An important principle behind designing data elements is to think of
data elements as a self-contained description of a phenomenon or event
and not as a field in a data entry form. Each data element lives on its
own in the database, completely detached and independent from the
collection form. It is important to consider that data elements are used
directly in reports, charts and other tools for data analysis, in which
the context in any given data entry form is not accessible nor relevant.
In other words, it must be possible to clearly identify what event a
data element represents by only looking at its name. Based on this, 
it is considered best practice to create the name of the data element

> such that it is able to stand on its own. Any user should be able to and 

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
such that it is able to stand on its own. Any user should be able to 
```

typically repeated for a number of “base” data elements: For instance
one would like to reuse this break-down for other data elements such as
“TB” and “HIV”. In order to make the meta-data more dynamic, reusable
and suitable for analysis, it makes sense to define the mentioned
diseases as data elements and create a separate model for the breakdown
attributes. This can be achieved by using the category model, which is
described in the following.

> The category model has four main elements which is best described using

Reviewer: minor fix
```suggestion
The category model has four main elements which are best described using
```

the above example:

1.  *Category options*, which correspond to “Female”, “Male” and “\< 5
    years” and “\> 5 years”. Category options are the fine grained
    attributes which are related in some common way.

2.  A *category*, which corresponds to “Gender” and “Age group”. Categories
are used to group related category options according to a common theme.

3.  A *category combination*, which is a combination of multiple categories
together. In the example above, we might assign both the "Gender" and "Age
Group" categories to a category combination called "Age/Gender". 

4. *Category option combinations* result from all possible combinations of
all category options within a category combination. In the example 
above, the following category option combinations would be 
created: "Female/\<5 years", "Female/\>5
years", "Male/\<5 years", "Male/\>5 years"

It is worth noting that the category model is completely indepent of the data element model. 
 Data elements are loosely coupled to categories, in that the association 

>  between them can be changed as any time without losing any data. 

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
 between them can be changed at any time without losing any data. 
```

must be done to correct it. It is hence recommended to thoughtfully
consider which breakdowns are required and to not change them too often.

> ## Atrtibute combinations

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
## Attribute combinations
```

The way this section is written is clear. My only concern is that in the system we don't really have things called "attribute combinations". We have category combinations where the categories have the data dimension type of "Attribute". 
That is addressed partly [here](https://docs.dhis2.org/en/use/user-guides/dhis-core-version-master/configuring-the-system/metadata.html#use_category_combo_for_data_set). 
I wonder if we should make sure these are aligned? (Though I completely understand if it is more common, and simpler, for implementers to talk about "attribute combinations").

* Periods represent the *when* dimension. 

Additional categories may be required in order to support data entry and analysis however. 
An additional free form dimension is also available to implementers, known as the "attribute combination". 
Attribute combinations are very similar to category combinations in terms of how they are implemented in the system. 
The difference however, is that they are not directly associated with individual data elements, but rather groups of data elements. 

Expanding on the example from above using the data element "Malaria cases", there may be a need to collect data at the same organisation unit and same time period for two different partners which work in that facility. In order to be able to attribute data to these partners, we could create a category called "Partner" which would contain the names of each partner as category options. This category could then be used as an attribute combination for the dataset which the "Malaria cases" is a part of. During data entry, an additional drop down option becomes available in the data entry screen, which would allow the user to choose which partner the data is associated with. 

> Thus, while attribute option combinations are structually equivalent to category option combinations, they are used to disaggregate data at the level of the data set. All data value which are part of a data set which is associated with an attribute combination, would be recorded and disaggregated with an additional fifth dimension, in addition to the four primary dimensions listed above. There are no restrictions on how an attribute combination can be constructed, which in turn allows for implementers to design arbitrary dimensions for specific data sets. 

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
Thus, while attribute option combinations are structurally equivalent to category option combinations, they are used to disaggregate data at the level of the data set. All data value which are part of a data set which is associated with an attribute combination, would be recorded and disaggregated with an additional fifth dimension, in addition to the four primary dimensions listed above. There are no restrictions on how an attribute combination can be constructed, which in turn allows for implementers to design arbitrary dimensions for specific data sets. 
```

## Group sets and analytical dimensions

> Category and attribute combinations are used during data entry to disaggretgate data in certain ways, 

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
Category and attribute combinations are used during data entry to disaggregate data in certain ways, 
```

aggregate or group the data in different ways. Consider a category with the following age bands: 

* \< 1
* 1-4
* 5-10
* 10-15
* 15-19
* 20-29
* 30-49
* 49+

Data may be entered with these age groups, but when analyzed in the analytics apps of DHIS2, 
there may be a need to group the data according to more coarse age bands.
Using a category option group set, we could create two category groups, such as \<15 and 15+. 
Each of the original category options could then be placed into the corresponding
category option group. Each of the groups can then be associated with a category option group 
set, which becomes available as an additional dimension in the analytics apps. 

Category option group sets are particularly useful for creating higher level groupings of common
category options. This approach is often useful for combining data elements which may have been 
collected according to related, but different category combinations. 

## Data element groups

Data elements which are related to one another can be grouped together
with a *data element group*. Data element groups can. Data element 
groups are completely flexible in the  sense that both their names and their

>  memberships are completely flexible in how they are designed. 

Reviewer: Unfinished sentence "Data element groups can.", plus the "completely flexible" sentence reads awkwardly and doesn't really improve on the previous version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a *data element group*. Data element groups are completely flexible in
terms of both their names and their memberships. 
```

Groups are useful both for browsing and presenting related data,
and can also be used to aggregate values captured for data elements in
the group. Groups are loosely coupled to data elements and not tied
directly to the data values which means they can be modified and added
at any point in time without interfering with the low-level data.

## Data element group sets

Similar to category option group sets, data element group sets can be used 
to aggregate related data elements together. We might be interested in 
determining the total number of communicable and non-communicable 
diseases from a morbidity data set. A data element group set could be 

> created with two groups: "Communicalble diseases" and "Non-communicable

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
created with two groups: "Communicable diseases" and "Non-communicable
```
